<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"
>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Nostalgy</title>
    <style>
      html {
        background-color: white;
        font-size: small;
      }

      a {
        color: blue;
        text-decoration: underline;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>

   <h2>Usage directions for Nostalgy</h2>

   <p>
   Nostalgy adds several keyboard shortcuts to improve your
   productivity with Thunderbird. A custom preference dialog 
   for Nostalgy is available through the Tools menu. Below we
   give default values for shortcuts (they can be changed from
   the preference dialog).
   </p>

   <h3>Folder commands</h3>

   <p>The following shortcuts are available from the main Thunderbird's window.
   </p>

   <table border="1">
    <tr><th>Shortcut</th><th>Description</th></tr>
    <tr><td>G</td><td>Open a specific folder</td></tr>
    <tr><td>S</td><td>Move the current message to a specific folder</td></tr>
    <tr><td>C</td><td>Copy the current message to a specific folder</td></tr>
   </table>

   <p><b>Important:</b> even if the key shortcuts above are written in
uppercase, you don't need to press Shift.</p>

   <p>As a remainder and a sign of Nostalgy's presence, these shortcuts are 
      displayed in Thunderbird's status bar.</p>

   <p>The G, S and C commands open an auto-completion box 
      (in place of the status bar) 
      where you can select a folder by typing part of its name. 
      Regular 
      expressions are accepted as well (and .. is a short-hand for .*
      meaning: any sequence of characters). You can choose the first
      suggested completion with Return, or first choose another one with
      the Up/Down keys. You can cancel the command with Escape.
      The Tab key activates a shell-like autocompletion mode. In this mode,
      the completed suggestions only mentions possible completions
      one level down in the folder hierarchy, and the Tab key itself
      automatically completes with the longest unambiguous fragment.</p>

   <p>It is possible to restrict (see the preference dialog)
   the completion to the folders on the
   same server as the currently displayed folder.</p>

   <p>The S and C commands also work in a standalone message window.</p>

   <p>The G command also focuses the thread pane. If you were doing
	a QuickSearch (that is, if you had typed some text in the search box),
	the same search will be done in the new folder.
   </p>

   <h3>3-pane navigation</h3>

   <p>
   Because of the G command,
   the folder pane becomes thus much less useful, and it can be
   hidden with the L shortcut.
   </p>

   <p>
   Nostalgy also allows to scroll the message while the thread pane
   is focused with the Ctrl-Left/Right keys. Because of that,
   it is a good idea to leave the thread pane always focused.
   Nostalgy still provides shortcuts to easily focus one of the three
   panes.
   </p>

   <table border="1">
    <tr><th>Shortcut</th><th>Description</th></tr>
    <tr><td>L</td><td>Hide/show the folder pane</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Esc-F</td><td>Focus the folder pane</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Esc-M</td><td>Focus the message pane</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Esc-Esc</td><td>Focus the thread pane</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Esc-Esc-Esc</td><td>Focus the thread pane, clear quick search box, select the "All" view</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Esc-I</td><td>Focus the quick search box</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Ctrl-Left/Right</td>
         <td>Scroll the message from the thread pane</td></tr>
   </table>

   <p>The Esc-X shortcuts means: press and release Escape, and then
   press X within 300ms (Esc-Esc is thus like a double click on Escape).</p>

   <p>
   When the thread pane is focused, you can scroll the currently
   displayed message (up and down) by pressing Ctrl-Left/Ctrl-Right.
   </p>

   <h3>Rules</h3>

   <p>Nostalgy has a notion of rule. A rule associates a folder to a
   message by looking for a substring of the From or To/Cc, or Subject 
   headers (or a combination of them). 
   A rule can be restricted to match messages only under
   a given server/folder. When a rule selects a folder for a given message,
    Nostalgy
   informs you in the status line.  You can then use the Shift-S/Shift-C
   shortcuts to move/copy directly the message to this folder.  
   Nostalgy's rules can be edited from the preference dialog.</p>

   <p>
   It is possible to match fields with a regexp instead of simply looking
   for a substring. This is done by enclosing the corresponding field
   with slashes. E.g. <tt>/^me@domain\.com$/</tt> will match the field
   for an exact value (not a substring).
   </p>

   <p>
   When no rule apply to a given message, Nostalgy proposes to re-use
   (with Shift-S/Shift-C) the folder same as for the last move/copy 
   operation folder. If the folder lookup has been restricted
   to the current server (in the Nostalgy preference dialog), then
   the last operation folder is attached to the current server. Otherwise,
   it is global.
   </p>

   <h3>QuickSearch</h3>

   <p>Nostalgy adds a few features to Thunderbird's QuickSearh features.</p>

   <ul>
   <li>As said above, the G command (change current folder) does not destroy
       the current search terms.</li>
   <li>You can focus the QuickSearch input box with Esc-I.</li>
   <li>The combination Esc-Esc-Esc clears the QuickSearch input box.</li>
   <li>The key "`" (backquote) launches a QuickSearch for messages
	from the same sender as the currently selected message.
	This re-creates the famous Alt-Click behavior from Eudora.
	If you press the same key again, the QuickSearch is cancelled.
	In the Sent folder, the search is done on the first recipient (To:
	header)	instead.</li>
   </ul>

<h3>Tags</h3>


<p> Starting from version 2.0, Thunderbird supports tags, along
with traditional folders, as a way to organize your
messages. Thunderbird's tagging feature replaces its former labeling
feature, and allows users to define an unlimited number of tags, more
than one of which can be attached to a single message. </p>

<p>Nostalgy helps you use tags in much the same way it helps you use folders:
The completion box for the Go/Save/Copy commands has always listed your
email folders, but for Thunderbird 2.0, it also lists your existing tags,
prefixed with a semi-colon.</p>

<p>A "Go" command applied to a tag restricts the current folder view to show
only the messages that have this tag (Esc-Esc-Esc restores the "All
messages" view). A "Save" or a "Copy" command applied to a tag toggles the
tag on or off for the selected messages (the first selected message is used
to determine if the tag has to be added or removed). Note that Save and Copy
have the same behavior when applied to tags.</p>

<p>It is possible to create new tags directly from the completion box.
If you enter a string of the form <tt>:foobar</tt> or <tt>:foobar:</tt>
(that is, a leading colon and an optional trailing colon), it will
open the tag creation dialog with the tag name set to <tt>foobar</tt>
(in order to confirm the creation of the tag and choose its color).
If you confirm, the command is applied to the new tag.
</p>


<p>You may also use tags rather than folders as targets for Nostalgy's
rules.</p>

   <h3>In the Composer</h3>

   <p>Nostalgy adds some support for keyboard operations to the Composer window.</p>

   <p>When typing in a header, it's possible to change easily the header
to either "To:", "Cc:" or "Bcc:". To do so, you need to be at the beginning
of the input box, and simply type "to ", "cc " or "bcc " (with the whitespace,
without the quotes).</p>

   <p>The Esc-Esc combination focuses the message body. The Esc-A combination
opens the file attachment dialog.</p>

   <h3>Preferences</h3>
   
   <p>The preference dialog for Nostalgy has several tabs.
   The first tab is the place where rules are
   defined. The second tab has five switches to control the way the completion
   box (where folder names are proposed) is populated (see below).
   The third pane allows you to configure Nostalgy's shortcuts
   (click on the key to change it) or to disable some of them.
   You might need to restart Thunderbird for changes to shortcuts
   to take effect.
   </p>

   <p>Here is a description of the completion options:</p>
 
   <ul>
   <li><b>Restrict folder completion to the current server:</b>
   limit lookup to folders on the same
   server/account as the currently active folder. In this mode,
   the server name is not displayed (and must not be typed) in
   the input line and the completion box.</li>

   <li><b>Match only on folder name, not on the full path:</b>
      force Nostalgy to interpret differently what
      is typed in the text. Normally, when the option is disabled, 
      it is interpreted as a regexp which can match an arbitrary substring
      of the complete folder name (including the account name and 
      the name of parent folders). When the option is enabled,
      the regexp must match either a substring of the local folder name
      (not the full name) or a prefix of the full folder name.</li>

   <li><b>Sort folders alphabetically</b>.</li>
  
   <li><b>Match folder names in a case sensitive way</b>.</li>


   <li><b>Tab triggers shell-like completion (otherwise, cycle through suggestions)</b>.</li>

   <li><b>Always include tags</b>: if set, tags are always included
in the completion box; otherwise, tags are included only if
the input box starts with a colon character, or if no folder matches.
</li>
   </ul>

   <hr/>

   <p>The Nostalgy extension has been written by Alain Frisch (<tt>Alain.Frisch@inria.fr</tt>). Comments and suggestions are welcome!  Donations
can be sent to the Paypal account <tt>alain@frisch.fr</tt>.</p>
  </body>
</html>

